
- Chain-of-thought is a prompt-based learning approach that involves constructing a series of prompts or questions to guide the model to generate a desired response. Using this approach, you can demonstrate the cognitive abilities of the generative AI models and better explain their reasoning process. It involves breaking down a complex task into smaller and easier ones through a sequence of more straightforward prompts, with each prompt building upon the previous one to guide the models toward the intended outcome. Before posing a question directly to the model, you feed it with related questions along with their corresponding solutions. This chain-of-prompts helps the model think about the problem and use the same strategy to answer more such questions correctly. In simpler words, the prompt includes a question and an accurate answer to the question to provide the required context and step-by-step reasoning for the model, then it poses a different question to be answered using the same line of reasoning. You'll understand this better with the help of an example. If you pose a mathematical problem to the model like, Matthew has six eggs. He buys two more trays of eggs. Each tray has 12 eggs. How many eggs does he have now? This logic can go off the rails, especially for a complex problem. To train the model with the appropriate reasoning involved in solving such questions, you can pose a similar question like this one. Mary has eight radishes. She used five radishes to prepare the dinner. The next morning she bought 10 more radishes. How many radishes does she have now? Along with the questions, you must provide the correct logical solution as well. Mary had eight radishes. She cooked dinner using five of them, so she had 8-5=3 radishes left with her. The next morning, she bought 10 more, so she has 3+10=13 radishes now. This will help the model understand the logic involved and come up with the right solution. Your final prompt should include the following: A related question with the appropriate solution, and then another question that can be solved using the same logic or reasoning.

